GIT:
  git is a version control system.
  it helps you keep track of code changes.
  it is used to collobrate on code.

GITHUB:
  it is a web based repository hosting service.

GITHUB ALTERNATIVES:
  bitbucket
  gitbucket

WORKING:
github->git copy folder->working folder

COMMANDS:
"git add filename" command :
  It is used in git to add changes or new files to staging area.the staging area is where you prepare your changes before commiting them to repository. 

"git status" command:
  It is used to see the status of the file like modified ,unmodified,created etc..

"git commit -m "commit message" "command:
  It is used in git to save changes made in the file in your repository.when you commit changes,you create a new version of your projecte's history.

"git push origin main" command:
 this command is used to save the changes made in local system on github repository.

"git pull" command:
  this command is used to pull the changes from github(ex:creating new file via github repository) to local system.

"cd foldername" command:
  It is used to choose a folder a chance directory.

"cd .." command:
  It is used to change directory in reverse order.

"git init" command:
  It is used to add .git folder to the folder which was created in local system not cloned.

"git add ." command:
  It is used when we need to add more than one file at same time in staging area.

"git remote add origin https://github.com/Palani0470/github2.git" command:
  It is used to add https to folder which is newly created in local system.

"git branch" command:
  Lists all local branches in your repository.Useful for seeing the branches you're currently working with.

"git branch -m main" command:
  It is used to change the name of the branch.We can use any other name not only main.

"git branch -a" command:
  Lists all local and remote branches in your repository.Helpful when you want to see all available branches, including those on remote servers.

"git checkout branchname" command:
  Used to change currently working branch(like main to sub branch).

"git merge branchname" command:
  Used to save the changes in one branch which made in another branch(EX:saving changes made on sub branch in main branch ).

"git branch branchname" command:
  Used to create a branch.

"clear" command:
  Used to clear all the command which was entered previously.

Installation:
  download git and open command prompt and enter the command "git" to check if it was installed
  enter the following command in command prompt to set user name and email:
  i)git config --global user.name "Palani0470"
  ii)git config --global user.email "palani0470@gmail.com"

STEPS TO CLONE A FILE FROM GITHUB AND EDIT IT IN LOCAL SYSTEM AND SAVE IT IN repository:
  1)open terminal in vscode
  2)enter the command "git clone https://github.com/Palani0470/github1.git"
  3)(https://github.com/Palani0470/github1.git)it is copied from github->repository->code->https
  4)to choose folder, enter this command "cd foldername" (cd github1)
  5).git folder act as bridge between github and our system.To view the .git folder follow step 6
  6)open my_git folder in system ->github1->view->show->hidden items
  7) after editing the file in local system enter the following  command in vscode terminal "git add intro.txt" where intro.txt is a file name.
  8)enter command "git status" to check the status of the file.
  9)Enter command 'git commit -m "file edited"
  10)enter command "git push origin main" to save the changes in github.
  11)now open the github repository and refresh it if needed to see the changes.

STEPS TO ADD A FILE OR FOLDER TO GITHUB WHICH WAS COMPLETLY CREATED IN LOCAL SYSTEM (NOT CLONED FROM GITHUB):

  1)create a folder in local system and create some files in the folder.If needed , change the path using"cd .." for backward change and "cd filename" for forward change.
  2)after creating the folder ,enter the command "git init".It is used to add .git file to the newly created folder which was created in local system.
  3)After editing the files use the command "git add ." for adding multiple files to staging area.If there is only one file use "git add filename".
  4)Next we need to Add commit message  'git commit -m "anymessage"'
  5)Now we need to add origin to our folder which was created in the system.For that use the command "git remote add origin https://github.com/Palani0470/github2.git".
  6)use command " git branch" to show all the branch in the repository.Initialy the branch name is named as master.
  7)Now we need to chance the name of the branch from master to main.For that use the command "git branch -m main".
  8)At last use the command "git push origin main" to save the files in github.

WORKING WITH BRANCHES:
  1)Let us  consider we created an another branch named as "sub_branch" in github repository.
  2)Now we need to pull the sub branch to the local system.For that use "git pull" command.
  3)Use "git branch -a" command to see all the branches.
  4)Now we need to change branch we are currently working at . At beginning it was in main branch change it by using the command "git checkout sub_branch".
  5)Now work in the current branch like creating editing file via vscode.
  6)After editing push the file to staging area using the command "git add .".
  7)Give commit message to the edited file using the command "git commit -m "file edited".
  8)Push the edited file to github using the command " git push origin sub_branch".
  9)This changes only occured in the sub branch .Incase we want to save the changes in main branch too, follow the below steps.
  10)At first we need to change  the working branch from sub branch to main branch.For that use the command "git checkout main". 
  11)Now use the command "git merge sub_branch" to save the changes in main branch.
  12)To make the changes visible in github too, use the command "git push origin main".

HOW TO CREATE A BRANCH IN LOCAL SYSTEM AND HOW CAN WE MERGE THE FILE TO MAIN BRANCH WHEN WE DONT HAVE ACCESS FOR THE MAIN BRANCH:
  1)At first open the terminal in vscode and if needed change the directory using  command "cd foldernmae".
  2)Let us consider we need to create a branch with name sub_branch2.for that use the command "git branch sub_branch2" for creating the branch.
  3)FOR checking use the command "git branch -a" to view all the branches.
  4)select sub_branch2 by using the command "git checkout sub_branch2".
  5)After selecting the branch,work in the branch like creating,deleting,updating a file.
  6)After the editing process add the file using "git add ." ,"git commit -m "created" ,"git push origin sub_branch2".
  7)There is no problem when you dont have the origin for sub_branch2,"git push origin sub_branch2"this command automatically create a origin in github.
  8)Now we are going to add the file created in sub_branch2 to main branch without accessing main branch and without using merge command.for that follow the upcommong steps.
  9)Open github ->pull requests -> new pull request
  10)select base:main and compare:sub_branch2 and click create pull request button.
  11) add a description and click "create pull request".
  12)Now the request will pulled to main branch.Next we need to accept the request.
  13)click the "pull requests" option.The request made will be shown below click the request you made.
  14)click "merge request" -> "confirm merge".now the chances we made were added to main branch in git hub.
  15) If you need to add the changes in main branch on your local system use the coammd "git merge sub_branch2".
